1.What does CSS stand for, and what is its role in web development?
CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets. It is used to define the presentation and styling of web documents, including layout, colors, fonts, and more.

2.How do you include CSS in an HTML document?
CSS can be included in an HTML document using external stylesheets (linked via <link>), internal styles (within the <style> element in the <head>), or inline styles (using the style attribute on HTML elements).

3.What is the difference between an ID and a class in CSS?
An ID is a unique identifier for an element, and it should be unique within the entire document. A class is a reusable identifier for multiple elements, and multiple elements can share the same class.

4.How do you select an element by its ID in CSS?
To select an element by its ID, you use the # symbol followed by the ID name. For example: #myElement { ... }.

5.Explain the concept of the "box model" in CSS.
The box model describes how elements are rendered in CSS. It consists of content, padding, border, and margin. These properties affect the size and spacing of an element.

6.How can you center an element horizontally and vertically in CSS?
To center an element horizontally, you can set its margin property to auto. To center an element vertically, you can use the display: flex and align-items: center properties on the parent container.

7.What is the purpose of the display property in CSS, and what are some common values for it?
The display property controls how an element is displayed. Common values include block, inline, inline-block, none, flex, and grid, among others.

8.Explain the difference between padding and margin in CSS.
Padding is the space between the element's content and its border, affecting the size of the element. Margin is the space around the element, separating it from other elements.

9.What are pseudo-classes in CSS, and can you provide examples?
Pseudo-classes are used to define the special state of an element. Examples include :hover, :active, :first-child, and :nth-child(n).


10.How can you change the text color of a link when a user hovers over it?
You can change the text color of a link when a user hovers over it by using the :hover pseudo-class. For example:
a:hover {
  color: red;
}

11.What is the CSS box-shadow property used for, and how is it applied to elements?
The box-shadow property is used to add a shadow effect to elements. It can be applied to an element using the following syntax:
element {
  box-shadow: h-offset v-offset blur spread color;
}
12.Explain the purpose of media queries in CSS, and how are they used for responsive design?
Media queries are used to apply different styles based on the characteristics of the device or viewport, making a webpage responsive to different screen sizes and orientations.

13.What is the z-index property in CSS, and how does it affect the stacking order of elements?
The z-index property determines the stacking order of elements. Elements with higher z-index values will be positioned above elements with lower values. It only applies to elements with a position value other than static.

14.What is the purpose of the float property in CSS, and how is it used for layout?
The float property is used to position elements to the left or right within their containing element. It is often used for creating column layouts.

15.How can you apply CSS styles to the first letter of a paragraph or the first line of text?
You can apply styles to the first letter using the ::first-letter pseudo-element and to the first line using the ::first-line pseudo-element.